# Report

# [L-1] Malicious receiver can stop airdropping
The MinterContract allows airdrops. The [airdrop](https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-10-nextgen/blob/8b518196629faa37eae39736837b24926fd3c07c/smart-contracts/MinterContract.sol#L181-L192) function loops through every recipient and mints him an amount of NFTs. If one of the receivers does not implement the ERC721 **onERC721Received** or implements it to always revert, the whole airdrop will fail. Consider using [Pull over Push](https://fravoll.github.io/solidity-patterns/pull_over_push.html)

# [L-2] NFTs minted in the same block will have the same hash preimage excluding the mintIndex
Since an NFTs hash in [*XRandoms.sol*](https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-10-nextgen/blob/8b518196629faa37eae39736837b24926fd3c07c/smart-contracts/XRandoms.sol#L35-L43) is generated by a mintIndex, block.prevrandao, blockhash and block.number, all NFTs generated in the same block will have the same preimage except for mintIndex. Because mintIndex cannot be the same for 2 tokens, this is a finding of LOW severity.

# [L-3] The last word of the wordList cannot be accessed
The [*XRandoms.getWord*](https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-10-nextgen/blob/8b518196629faa37eae39736837b24926fd3c07c/smart-contracts/XRandoms.sol#L15-L33) function stores 100 words as strings in an array. It takes an **id** parameter and returns words[id] if the id is 0 and words[id - 1] otherwise.
The function is private, so it can be called only from the same contract. The only place where it is called is the [*XRandoms.randomWord*](https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-10-nextgen/blob/8b518196629faa37eae39736837b24926fd3c07c/smart-contracts/XRandoms.sol#L40-L43) with a value from 0-99. The last word is at index 99. It can never be accessed because the id is subtracted by 1.

# [L-4] There is a possibility of a function selectors collision
There are functions that are protected by a modifier that checks their signatures. The caller is able to execute the function only if he is whitelisted for its signature. With adding more and more functions, the possibility of function selector clash increases. Consider mixing the signature with an additional element.


# [NC-1] Organize the files in the main folder
Currently, all files are stored in the root folders. Consider organizing them into different folders. For example, **libs**, **randoms**, **core**

# [NC-2] Format the code
The code is not formatted properly. Consider using a tool that formats it.